Q1: In the context of database application development (aka database engineering), what are the aims of data modelling?
    Q:
        null
    A:
        1. describe what information is contained in the database
        2. describe the relationships between data items
        3. describe the constraint on the data

Q2: Describe the similarities and differences between the following similarly-named concepts:
    Q:
        a. relationship in the entity-relationship data model
        b. relation in the relational data model
    A:
        relationships are used to model the associations between entities in the ER data model; 
        relations are used to model both the relationship and the entities, 
        it's like a table with a name and a set of attributes

Q3: What kind of data, relationships and constraints exist in this scenario?
    Q:
        for each person, we need to record their tax file number (TFN), their real name, and their address;
        everyone who earns money in Australia has a distinct tax file number;
        authors write books, and may publish books using a ``pen-name'' (a name which appears as the author of the book and is different to their real name);
        editors ensure that books are written in a manner that is suitable for publication;
        every editor works for just one publisher;
        editors and authors have quite different skills; someone who is an editor cannot be an author, and vice versa;
        a book may have several authors, just one author, or no authors (published anonymously);
        every book has one editor assigned to it, who liaises with the author(s) in getting the book ready for publication;
        each book has a title, and an edition number (e.g. 1st, 2nd, 3rd);
        each published book is assigned a unique 13-digit number (its ISBN); different editions of the same book will have different ISBNs;
        publishers are companies that publish (market/distribute) books;
        each publisher is required to have a unique Australian business number (ABN);
        a publisher also has a name and address that need to be recorded;
        a particular edition of a book is published by exactly one publisher;
    A:
        Objects:
            person(+TFN, real name, address)
            authors(*TFN, pen-name)
            editors(*TFN, publisher)
            books(title, edition number, ISBN, authors, editor)
            publishers(+ABN, name, address)
        Relationships:
            authors -- write -- books
            editors <-- edit -- books
            publishers <-- publish -- books
        Constraints:
            each tax file number must be unique
            a person cannot be an author and an editor at the same time
            ISBN of a book must be unique

Q4: Consider some typical operations in the myUNSW system ...
    Q:
        student enrols in a lab class,
        student enrols in a course,
        system prints a student transcript;
        For each of these operations:
        a. identify what data items are required
        b. consider relationships between these data items
        c. consider constraints on the data and relationships
    A:
        data item:
            student(+zID, name, degree, courses-enrolled, timetable)
            course(+coursCode, capacity, degree, pre-requisite, lectures, tutorials, labs)
            lab(+labCode, time, *courseCode)
        relationships:
            student --- enrols -- course
            student -- enrols -- lab
        constraints:
            zID, courseCode and labCode must all be unique

Q5: Researchers work on different research projects, and the connection between them can be modelled by a WorksOn relationship. 
    Q:
        Consider the following two different ER diagrams to represent this situation. (diagram missing)
        Describe the different semantics suggested by each of these diagrams.
    A:
        a. 
            For each researcher, we record their name and a unique staff number;
            Researchers work on projects;
            each researcher can work on 0 or many projects;
            each project can be worked at least one researchers;
            each project has a title
            - the time of a particular researcher worked on a certain project is recorded;
        b. 
            For each researcher, we record their name and a unique staff number;
            Researchers work on projects;
            each researcher can work on 0 or many projects;
            each project can be worked at least one researchers;
            each project has a title
            - the total time of the all researchers worked on a certain project is recorded;

Q7: The following two ER diagrams give alternative design choices for associating a person with their favourite types of food. 
    Q:
        Explain when you might choose to use the second rather than the first. (diagram missing)
    A:
        Choose the second beacuse cusine is a subclass of person and cusine can also like/dislike the person

Q15: Describe each of the following core components of the relational model:
    Q:
        attribute
        domain
        relation schema
        relational schema
        tuple
        relation
        key
        foreign key
    A:
        attribute: has a unique name within the relation and a domain
        domain: a set of allowed values of an attribute
        relation schema: a table that contains relation name (table name), attributes and keys
        relational schema: a buleprint that outlines the way its organizes data into tables
        tuple: a row of a table which contains a single record for that relation
        relation: has a unique name within the database and a set of attributes
        key: the attribute that uniquely identifies the relation
        foreign key: 
            attributes correspond to a primary key in the other relations;
            tuple of the foriegn key either matches the corresponding primary key or be entirely NULL
Q16: Why are duplicate tuples not allowed in relations?
    Q:
        null
    A:
        Beacuse it violates the specification of relation integarity, particularly the key constraint

Q17: Consider the following simple relational schema:
    Q:
        too slack to copy paste
    A:
        R(1,a,b,c) and  R(1,x,y,z) cannot be both exist since a1 is a primary key
        R(NULL, x,y,z) is not legal since a1 is a primary key and connot be NULL or duplicate
        S(1, NULL, y) is not legal, primary key connot be NULL

Questions:
    Q17, S(1,NULL,y)
    Q15, key
    Q3, does --- means bold line?